# TODDLER FUN TIMER
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/2JK5tIR3_Xk
## Description
Toddler Fun Timer is a fun and interactive tool I created to use as an aid when giving my kids countdowns. If we are at a park playing and I say that it's time to go, but don't give a warning in advance that we will be leaving soon, I'm just asking for trouble. With the Toddler Fun Timer, they can be involved in the process and feel like they have some control. They start by selecting from the predefined activites, and then choose one of the available predetermined time options. From there, they press start and the countdown begins! 

## Primary Functions
Initially, there were three primary functions: countdown(), set_timer(), and reset(). The countdown function takes one parameter, time_left, and utilizes a nested conditional to determine what actions to take. The first conditional checks that time left if greater than zero, and if so, begins the nested loop. The nested loop exists to change the color of the countdown clock when specific criteria is met. Once the clock equals zero, the main loop retrieves the selected activity and passes it into another custom function called pop_up, which I will address in Secondary Functions. The set_timer function gets a time interval from the user and then passes that to the countdown function. It also serves to disable the start button once the timer is started. The reset function serves to reset all the conditions to their default, starting positions.

## Secondary Functions
After the basic program was created, I went back in and started adding flourishes to liven up the timer. The include pop_up(), change_button_color(), and change_font_color(). pop_up was created as an add-on to increase the interactivity of the timer and also uses conditionals, this time to determine which specific activity was selected. It relies upon tkinter messagebox to create a pop up window on screen with a custom message, specific to each activity. The change_button_color function was created to randomly generate hex color codes which could be passed into the various buttons so that each time the program was launched, the button colors would change keeping the UI freash and interesting considering the target audience. change_font_color works similarly, but instead changes the color of the font of certain labels.

## Main Function
There is a lot of tkinter object configuration happening inside the main function. I customized the rows and columns using grid() to give it an oversized appearance, again considering the target audience. Initially, I tried using pack and place but with one I did not seem to have enough control and the other maybe too much. In the end, grid was the winner. I utilized enumerate() to generate the activity and time interval buttons so that I did not need to define each button individually. Initial version of the timer had buttons that were always in a normal state and could be selected repeatedly. It took some trial and error to figure out how to bind desired states depending on the condition, or even just implement the custom color function. Ultimatey, I was able to do it by creating a list that contained the values and iterating through it. Buttons and labels were also created for start and reset buttons, as well as the clock itself. There is still room for additional functionality. I was able to create a version that played .wav sound files on my VS Code IDE. First version utlized winsound which did not work in the codespace. I tried a number of other option like playsound and pydub, both of which worked in my IDE, but unfortunately did not make the cut in the CS50 codespace.

## Conclusion
Building Toddler Fun Timer gave me an up close look into how much work goes into each little component of the tkinter GUI. I am happy with the functionality of the version I produced for my final project, but I fully intend to continue to develop it as well.   
